Five minutes, so we're too far away.
Welcome.
Alright,
Welcome. But
if you wanna do some intros, um, some
of you we know, some we don't.
Um, and, um, so yeah, do some intros
and then if you want to, um, you know, give us a, a quick,
um, uh, summary
of some things you see is key, uh, that'd be great.
And then we will, um, go able to go to questions.
We have an hour and a half, um, so, um,
but if you just wanna take five minutes
or so to, um, do an intro, that'd be great.
Yeah. So did you want us
to do introductions first or just, well,
Well do, do your intros of your team.
Yes. And then, um, uh,
and then, uh, any comments you wanna make. Yeah.
Great. Cool. Uh, I'm Sarah Gilles.
I'm the Chief Executive of the Electricity Authority,
and I've met some, a few.
Good board. And introduce yourself, Hayden.
I'm Hayden Glass. I'm the general manager
of wholesale and Supply
At Hayden.
And Eric Westergard.
I'm, uh, deputy chair
and currently acting chair of the authority.
Cool. Thank you. Okay, so
We've got a few opening remarks. Eric's gonna start off.
Uh, uh, my name's Eric Westergard.
I'm Deputy chair of the Authority,
and it's privileged to be here as the acting chair.
Uh, I acknowledge the chair
and select committee members, um,
and I thank you for your interest in the authorities work.
Um, joined, as you said by, uh, Sarah and Hayden.
Um, we're delighted to welcome three new board members
to the authorities board.
They have just recently started as announced
by the minister, and we are continuing a very strong focus
on delivering affordable, secure,
and resilient electricity for consumers in New Zealand.
Um, everything we do aims to contribute to these outcomes
and a future where all New Zealanders have access
to affordable, reliable energy to power Our homes, lives,
businesses, and economy in the wholesale market,
our work is centered on ensuring that the right settings
and signals are in place to encourage investment
and operational decisions to minimize costs.
We appreciate the government's move to provide the authority
with stronger powers in the wake of the Frontier Report.
Um, this will improve our ability to update rules,
monitor the market, strengthen competition,
and protect consumers.
Uh, we currently have a board led organizational design
review underway, which will advise on
how we can best incorporate these additional powers while
delivering on our statutory objectives
and regulatory responsibilities.
And I'd like to hand over to Sarah Giess
for more on our work program.
Ed
Morning, our chair and committee members.
Thank you Eric. And thank you to the committee
for the opportunity to talk to you today. Sarah, can
You just move The mic a little bit closer to you?
I think Yeah, that'd be great. Thanks. How's that?
Is that bit better? That'll help. Great. Thank you.
And thank you for the opportunity to talk
to you today about the work of the authority in a, a sector
that's vitally important for New Zealand.
Our role, um, our goal at the authority is to ensure
that the electricity system provides, uh, new Zealanders
with, um, reliable power at the lowest possible cost.
Our role is to make the rules
that govern the electricity sector in the market, uh,
to operate the system in the markets,
and to enforce compliance with the rules.
Right now, new Zealand's electricity system is a transition.
New Zealand is electrifying.
There is a significant expansion of generation investment,
uh, and batteries and technological advances that are,
are enabling new players, including households
to be involved in the system in new ways.
This transition is challenging
and we've seen particularly, uh, periods
of stress like winter 2024.
The rules of the market need to change to ensure
that the market can deliver for consumers.
As a regulator, we need to anticipate challenges.
We need to proactively change the rules,
and we need to continue to monitor, uh, the outcomes
to ensure that our changes are delivering The amount
of activity during the period, uh, of the annual review
and since is representative of the significant change.
Uh, the and the fast moving environment that we're in
the events of winter 2024 were a significant part
of the year under review.
And in response to that, uh, we at the authority, um,
set up the energy competition task force working
with the Commerce Commission, um, to improve the performance
of the electricity market.
We've moved quickly to deliver a range
of significant reforms,
including introducing a new hedge product, um,
which helps give buyers protection from high prices in the
morning and evening, which enables
more competition in the market.
We've introduced an emergency reserve scheme,
which protects against unplanned uh, disruptions.
We have required larger retailers to offer time
of use pricing, um, which gives consumers more choices
and control over their power use
and a rebate scheme
that rewards Kiwis when they
supply power back to the system.
Uh, during times of peak times.
We've also launched a generation investment dashboard,
which, um, shows the new generation coming to market
and a thermal fuel dashboard,
which helps provide insights for energy security.
Soon we'll be making decisions on level playing field
measures, uh, which are designed to ensure that gen uh,
gen Taylor's wholesale businesses cannot treat independent
retailers differently from how they
treat their own retail arm.
These initiatives are all designed to encourage more
and faster investment in new electricity generation.
Boost competition enable homes, businesses,
and industrials to better manage their own electricity use
and costs, and put downward pressure on prices.
Not only that, but new requirements, uh,
come into force this year, which will make it easier
and quicker to connect to electricity networks so
that New Zealand or as New Zealand electrifies, I'm proud
that we've also strengthened our consumer protections.
Our consumer care obligations are designed
to ensure households are treated fairly
by their power companies, so they can stay connected
and a better supporter to manage their power bills.
All power companies must follow the rules if they sell
electricity to residential consumers.
We've also required retailers to report residential
and small business, uh, customer data
to give us a better picture of the retail market.
Our proposals to standardize electricity data are building
the digital foundations to unlock smarter products,
stronger competition, and better outcomes for consumers.
This soon we'll be launching a new comparison
and switching service, uh, which is powered
by data from over 30,000 households.
And this will help Kiwis find better power deals.
Our better Bills proposals are about empowering consumers
by ba making bills easier to understand,
ensuring retailers are checking in with their customers
to make sure that they're on the best plan
and limiting the bill shock that can add stress
to New Zealand households.
Many of our other changes are quite technical in nature,
but they're helping to reshape the sector,
boost competition, enable investment, uh,
and innovation in new generation and empower consumers.
This significant, significant level
of change is necessary not only to keep up,
but in fact to stay ahead.
I'm really proud of the foundations that we've put in place
and we'll continue to help shape an electricity system
that delivers for consumers today, while also preparing all
of us for the challenges of tomorrow.
All New Zealanders want electricity they can rely on
and afford, and everything we are
doing is working towards that.
Thank you, and happy to take questions.
Mm-hmm. Thank you. I'm
Gonna start with Megan. Um, thank
you. You have a cup,
maybe a couple, and then I'll go see.
Yeah, we've got quite a bit of time.
So are we able to finish? Way you go? Questioning?
Yeah, go if you like. Fantastic. Oh look. Thank you.
Um, and welcome to your first select committee hearing.
Thank you. Um, acting chair.
Look, um, really want to talk about some
of the code changes, particularly around compliance, um,
that came in and question where they, um, heading.
So if, if we look at historical episodes
where wholesale prices have fallen, um, for whatever reason,
what evidence do this does the authority have about the
proportion that would be passed on
to household con consumers?
Um, so is your question about, um, how do we see
that that kind of flow
Through? So what tools
in terms of that flow through that pass on?
I mean, let's address the elephant in the room.
Uh, we have a cabinet paper out there
that's modeling a hundred percent pass through
of any savings, um,
from in wholesale in the wholesale market
with the LEG proposal, a hundred percent pass
through to consumers.
What I'm asking is, do we have historical data to show
that we've seen electricity retailers pass
through a hundred percent of savings to
consumers at any other point in history in New Zealand?
Yeah, I'm just trying to think how
best to answer that question.
I mean, I think the starting point, I guess,
and you might want to chip in,
but I mean, the starting point is obviously we monitor the
market really closely and we've done a lot
of work in the last year to collect a lot more information
about what happens in the retail market.
So retail pricing information
that we didn't have historically.
Um, and that, um, that certainly enables us
to do closer monitoring about what happens in reality, um,
which, which historically I don't think we would've been
able to do in the same way.
So you have monitoring powers, um, the minister
and answers in the house is said
that he's beefed up the authority
and given them powers to ensure
that we have a hundred percent, um, pa um, pass through.
What are those powers that you have that can set tariffs,
um, or could dictate, um, the price that Gen Taylors
or retailers charge their customers?
Yeah, so we don't set the price that is charged at retail.
Um, and, and you'll know there's a lot of things
that go into retail pricing.
So, um, and I, I've got the breakdown
of the bill if it's useful to, for people to see,
but what goes into the retail price is made up
of that cost of generation.
It's about 38.5%, um, of a bill.
Um, then a large chunk of, of your bill is also the cost
of the transmission and distribution.
That's about 32.5% when you combine it.
Um, and then there are other components to the bill too.
So, um, so I think the starting point is there's a lot
that goes into the bill and those, those things can vary.
Sure. It's more about the, the tools that Yeah.
That we have. There's an authority that you have.
Yeah, I mean, we've got quite an important question setting
out there about a hundred percent flow through to consumers.
Mm-hmm. We've never seen this in New Zealand's history.
Mm-hmm. Um, the concern that people rightly have is that the
electricity generators can keep up to a hundred percent
of those profits themselves
and not flow them through to households
to lower their power bills.
Um, and even if we went down to a 50%, uh, flow
through rate, all of the benefits
that the government is purporting out
of the LNG proposal evaporate
and it becomes a net cost to consumers on their power bills.
So can I just add, just, just to Sarah's comment,
and I think it's important that we monitor Yep.
What is is happening, we don't set the prices.
So we, we don't have that ability as regulators
and other jurisdictions do to actually set the prices.
But what we can do is we can make sure,
and we have levers that we can pull potentially to
encourage the retailers
and the, um, the generators to ensure
that those costs are flowing through in the long term prices
that set the, uh, the costs that
consumers are paying in the retail market.
And so, you know, as a, as an entity,
we can't set the prices.
Our, uh, our, our power is one of influence
as, as you will be aware, you know, the, um,
the critical issue, excuse me, um, that exists is, you know,
the ability, uh, the social license to,
to operate of a party.
And so it's, it's our ability to send messages
to the market participants, Hey, this is
what we are expecting you to deliver for consumers,
and we can then work on that.
Absolutely. And I understand it's more the way the powers
of the authority being portrayed in this plan.
It's not a criticism of the authority, it's really about,
um, what can realistically be done under our current
settings to pass that through.
So I guess my question was, um, is whether
or not the authority has ever used its existing code
or enforcement tools to directly intervene in retail pricing
or margins is distinct from competition and contact issues
because it's really that competition and conduct mm-hmm.
Where a lot of the, the code work of the authority set.
So in terms of, do you have tools that could, um,
influence, um, or anything around that pricing?
I mean, I guess you've already said that
and it's No. Anything you wanna add in
Terms of the, uh, well, the, the main thing driving what,
uh, the retail price is competition?
Yeah. So you, I mean, we could talk about the effectiveness
of competition, but there's a,
there's also a slighting complicated story, which is that,
as Sarah said, the retail charges are a combination
of the cost of energy and the cost of lines.
Um, at the moment, lines of costs are going up. Totally.
And I think, I think, are you speaking
of potential future changes
to wholesale prices as a result of
The l So the, the business cases premised on there being,
um, a hundred percent pass through a $10, a $10,
um, price decrease that would flow through to consumers.
Yeah. So my question is,
and the minister has said
that the EA will have the tools Yes.
I, to ensure a hundred percent pass through of this.
We've never seen it historically.
So, and the whole business case falls apart if we are not
seeing a hundred percent ask through.
So it's not a criticism
of the ea it's really trying to understand.
I i do you have the tools?
And if you don't, what would those tools look like?
Sure. So, so certainly, I mean, as Sarah said, we, we,
we are now monitoring, we're now getting data every month,
um, on bills, on retail bills.
So we can see to a high degree
of granularity what bills are.
Um, trying to tie that
to changes in input costs is a little bit more tricky
because a lot of things go into that.
Sure. And also, uh, consumers tend
to be on prices set for a year, um,
and the wholesale price varies every five minutes.
So Yeah. Um, that can be difficult to draw those kind
of comparisons, but in a competitive market,
you would expect a high degree of pass through.
That's a, that's a reasonable state.
So I guess what we are, what you're saying is
that you have monitoring tools mm-hmm.
You have influence tools
and you'd be relying on competition, which in reality
is 90% a market that's co the 90% it is covered
by four main gen tailors.
You'd be relying on the same market mechanisms that is led
to New Zealand as paying high household power bills to pass
through a hundred percent of savings,
which we've never seen before.
Well, I think there's probably two things. I
Think deleting the witnesses, something Yeah.
I think it's a fair summation, Mr.
Chair, your question is what, um, would we take the model
that we have and we work within the model that we have?
So the questions you're asking us are,
what if we had a radically different model?
Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a difficult thing
for us to talk to really.
Yeah. But What I would say is we've had a program
of work over, you know, a little while now on improvements
to the wholesale market and some of those improvements.
And I, I'm sure there will be questions about those,
but some of those improvements are quite significant
and they go to, you know, strengthening competition.
Um, and, and, and yeah. So I think that's another
Point. And, and can I just add to
that? Yeah.
And I'm sure the question will come up later on.
You know, Sarah talked about the pipeline of new build.
Mm-hmm. A large proportion of that new build is from
new entrant into Yeah.
The market. And so that is a, a, a competitive tension.
Yeah. That we are seeing, you know, our role is to make sure
that the signals are there to encourage that investment.
And we think that we are getting the settings correct
to enable that, and that's what we are seeing.
Mm-hmm. So as we are seeing more
and more generation coming in, we are seeing
that long term price come down.
And that is the pass through.
Um, the, the question about, you know, the LNG
and the pass through to consumers, you know, again,
it's markets require confidence.
And so, you know, the question
of LNG has been hanging over the market for, you know,
a number of months, quite some time.
Um, there is now certainty around that.
So people now know this is, you know,
what the government has announced in terms
of their plans around LNG.
That gives them certainty that encourages parties to get in
and make investments because they have that
Certain Cool, thank you. I take
a sub from Simon. Thanks.
Then I might sub off the Aternity.
So just looking at the, uh, at the strategic,
uh, objectives for the authority security
of suppliers coming through really strongly, uh,
does the authority have an opinion as to whether, uh,
diversifying our energy sources
and having an LNG terminal, uh,
increases security of supply?
Um, we don't have a view on LNG at all.
Uh, our role is not to make investments.
We do not purchase, uh, fuel. Uh, what we,
My question was does it improve
resilience and security of supply?
Um, that's a decision that the investors in the sector
will, uh, make for themselves.
Whether they believe it, it does.
Um, you know, we believe
that there is confidence, uh, in the market.
So, uh, l
and g has a role to play as any fuel may do,
and it is up to investors to make a determination of, um,
what they're going to do in terms
of their investment, uh, going forward.
Okay. So this, uh, I mean this is interesting.
I, I would've thought that given one
of your strategic objectives, uh,
published strategic objectives is about security supply
and resilience, that, uh, the authority would have some view
or be able to make some value judgment, uh, have some way
of measuring or including whether adding an LNG terminal,
uh, improves security of supply and resilience.
Because I thought if you don't have an opinion on that, then
what, what, what is your role?
Um,
Our, our role is to ensure that the, um,
the market is providing the signals, uh, to people who can
make decisions around, um, their consumption,
their investment, uh, choices.
Um, LNG is, is one fuel.
Um, we've seen a number of, uh,
market participants come out and support of it.
So quite clearly, the market believes,
or many in the market believes that LNG is going
to make a positive contribution.
Um, it's not for me as the acting chair,
and it's not, I don't believe for the authority
to form any particular opinion on whether one fuel
or another, uh, should be preferred over any other.
That's not our role.
Um, if we were to do that, then we would be,
um, impinging on the roles and responsibilities of others.
And we, we have to be seen to be absolutely neutral
in terms of all of these things.
I mean, this is quite remarkable.
This will appear remarkable to people listening to this,
that the electricity authority, which has an objective
around security of supply, cannot form an opinion as
to whether adding an LNG facility to New Zealand's,
to domestic energy mix increases or not security supply.
And hence my question is that, uh, I mean,
what is your role not to have an opinion
and to like determine does this meet
or does this help achieve what the EA suggest?
Is it strategy, it publishes its strategy?
Maybe you can come back to the committee on that.
Look, I, I will take, you know, the opportunity
to come back to the committee on that, you know, personally,
um, uh, the announcement was made last week.
Um, I, and many
of the people within the authority have not seen all
of the analysis around, um, the l and g proposals.
We need to, you know, to get
that we were not involved in any of the, the, the modeling.
Um, if we had been involved in any of that, then we would
be in a position to have an opinion.
'cause we would've been involved in it.
We haven't been, um, ab absolutely any additional fuel
that is available, whether it's hydro, you know, resource,
uh, increased wind, whatever does have a, um,
a beneficial impact on the market.
You know, we as a, as a nation
or a small island system, uh, we don't have other, um,
connections to other countries.
So, you know, we are reliant on the
energy resources that we have here.
Um, any additional resource, if it is, uh,
incremental to what we have, then yes,
quite potentially it does add value to,
um, security of supply. Excellent. Um,
Great. And thank you.
Okay, I'm gonna change, I'm gonna change.
I've got, I told you before, I've got three subs already.
So, um, so I'm gonna,
but I am gonna switch to Celia to take her sub first thank,
because she's then gotta go, and then I'll
Really appreciate that.
Yeah. Okay. Um, it was, it is drawing a slightly long bow
as a sub, so I hope the chair will,
Oh, well, if it's drawing
too long a bow, then I'll close it.
And it's really about, um, uh, Mr.
Port mentioned your vision and outcomes and so on.
I don't see, I was really surprised not to see
in the detail of your report.
There's lots about energy transition and electrification,
but at the level of visions, outcomes, statutory objectives,
there is absolutely nothing about, um,
that transitional sustainability or any of that.
I think silly. That's a very long boat.
Mike, can you ask that question when it gets to that?
Thank you very much. Right. Okay. Look where I wanted to go.
You've question, you've, you've highlighted a couple
of places here about changing the market rules mm-hmm.
About updates and tweaks to the market rules.
So I'm really interested in what changes have been made Mm.
What difference those changes will make,
and whether in fact the market model is working well
to give us the reliability and the, um, uh,
and the price that we want Yeah.
With any, uh, further changes that need to be make.
So there's probably quite a bit in that, but yes, I'm really
Keen I'll start, we probably wanna chip in,
but I'm gonna start with the last thing you asked, which is,
um, whether or not the market model, um,
works fundamentally.
Um, so, uh, a few years ago, the authority, uh,
had an advisory group, the market development advisory group
that undertook a multi-year, um, investigation into, um,
what we needed to do to change the, the market
for an increasingly renewables based system.
And one of the questions they asked themselves was,
is in fact the wholesale market model, the right model.
And one of their conclusions was that it was, um, so that
that analysis has been done.
Um, and, but then what they said, and, and,
and what I think we've said several times since then is
that, uh, it needs to evolve as we are seeing, you know,
a changing generation mix.
And I refer to that in my opening comments.
That means a whole lot of things need to change in the way,
um, the market operates.
And that is a lot of the work
that we've been doing over the last kind of, um,
certainly in the period that's in under review and,
and ongoing, we are making changes to the rules that, um,
that govern the wholesale market to make it work, um,
better for the future.
And those kinds of changes, you know,
run the full spectrum from kind of, kind of quite minor sort
of things and technical things, um, all the way through
to quite significant proposals, um, for intervention.
Um, some of which we're gonna come onto, I'm sure.
Um, so I suppose what I'm trying to say is, um, yes,
the market is still considered the right approach,
but does it need to change?
Absolutely, yes. And we are changing it.
And that goes on, I think, to something
that it's just worth highlighting.
I'm sure committee members are aware, but,
but perhaps not all are aware that one of our core powers,
as I mentioned in my opening, is to be able
to change the rules that govern the market.
And that's an incredible privilege
to write secondary legislation.
Um, and so the reason we are able
to do it is it means we can change the rules
relatively quickly.
Um, and so we have a, a program where we, you know,
we propose changes to the rules.
We consult, we make changes quite quickly, um,
and, uh, I should have it in front of me,
but I think we made 35 changes to the rules over
a two year period, um, which is quite significant.
Um, so that constant changing of the system, um,
in a, in a, in a quite sort of, um, quick
and efficient way is what enables us to develop the market
to work as well as it possibly can. So,
So to be clear, if I was to say that, you know,
it give us the top two or three, um,
significant changes which you've made
to the market model mm-hmm.
Or that you're considering making to the market model
to improve it, what are they, what, you know, why are,
why those, what have they, what, what, what do they do?
Yeah, so I think most
of those would be primarily in the wholesale space,
and I'll let Hayden talk to some of that.
But I mean, I think the big one
that's on the table at the moment is the proposal, um, to
what we call level the playing field, which is about, um,
Gen Taylor retailers. Yeah.
Yeah, that's right. So do you want kind of,
Could we do myself, which was on the original primary,
and then do a whole section on the level playing field,
because it's a really substantial,
Okay, well let's, let's come back to, let's come back
to the changes you, you're making.
Mm-hmm. And not, not
just that one, but the other ones as well. So me could,
Um, just on, on the questions, um, that Mr.
Court was asking you about your opinion,
and I don't expect you to have an opinion
because that's not your role,
but what I am interested in is whether
or not you've, over the last 24 months
provided advice to either MV or ministers, um,
or anyone else within the, the, uh, complex web of
electricity, um, about the cost of, um,
different fuel types, the relative cost
of different fuel types,
and the impact on electricity prices when we,
when we are looking at security of supply, firming,
storage, all those kind of things.
And whether that's something you have provided advice on.
I'll take this one. So there's been unsurprisingly quite a
lot of interest in this question just recently.
Um, so we have provided, uh, a limited amount of advice
and that has been now released publicly.
Um, the, the core que to your question about fuel costs, um,
I think the analysis, our analysis is the same as
that reported in the cabinet paper, which is to the effect
that, uh, coal is cheaper than MG on a fuel cost basis.
That's currently the case.
Um, it's also, uh, true though that lots
of things can happen, and we've been
through periods when domestic gas prices have been extremely
high, uh, and domestic gas production is falling.
So the views of the future
and what gas prices might be, um,
would also be relevant to your question.
It's not a, you wouldn't, you wouldn't just base it on your,
on the current price comparison. Mm-hmm.
And I mean, I think one of the interesting things in
that cabinet paper is it does have a look at things like the
options around, um, biomass and Huntley, for example,
and what the cost of, but the benefits
and the job opportunities that would come
with setting up a domestic supply chain
of biomass into Huntley, that actually you get down to
around that 2020 $5 cost, the same as being
as purported for LNG if we are not in a global
squeeze on LNG.
That's a, a hope and a prayer that that's
what the landed cost of lng Yeah.
While subsidized through the terminal will be.
Um, and to go back, go back to where the 18 chair started,
though, um, more fuel's good for the system,
more diversity is good,
but we as the authority,
we wouldn't say exactly someone should feel biomass.
I mean, if, if people think they can make a buck
building biomass, then, then good luck to you. Yeah.
Just, yeah. So, So I don't, um,
Absolutely. I'm not asking you to
make a call
Fuels No, no. But I, but I, but
there, I mean, there is a stack
of, um, fuel costs.
The other thing that's just, um, fuel costs can sometimes,
uh, can sometimes hide is that actually the amount
of available energy is also super important.
So we've only got a certain amount of ability to burn coal,
but a very large stockpile at the moment, adding more to
that stockpile won't actually increase the amount of energy
that we can generate because we've only
got a certain amount of capacity.
And so yeah,
LNG is essentially available unlimited quantities, um, at,
at a, at a high price relative to coal.
But we don't, you know, so,
but there's, you know, there there'd be
advantages in being able to use it more.
It still has to go through. Correct. It
Has to go somewhere If, if we're gonna use it to,
to stock electricity still to, to, to, uh,
go through a generator. Correct.
Correct. Absolutely. Yes. That's right.
So it's just worth bearing in mind that the quantity
that's available as well as the price.
Sure. So when you, when you're making these comparisons,
but certainly on a fuel cost basis Yeah.
Uh, um, the, the numbers for LNG, uh, uh, sort of 200,
$250 and you got out
Yeah. But it's
with the, the kind
of the capital costs extracted, that's just,
That's just the fuel costs. So
that's just fuel costs. That's
what you'd expect somebody to bid. I
Just one last one On the same subject,
Just in terms of the, the, the savings
that could eventuate
to consumers if we do de-risk the electricity system.
I don't think, um, anybody, um, argues with the fact
that if we can take out that, uh, risk that is priced in,
um, is, uh,
the way in which we've been talking about it over the last
week or so, um, that it's sort of seems like it's inherent
to LNG, but it's fair to say
that actually it's addressing security as supply,
it's addressing firming
and it's addressing storage, um,
that would derisk the market
and it's not inherent to a particular fuel type. Yeah.
That that's right. I mean, that's right. Long.
I mean, the, the, the critical thing about the fuel is it's
available when you need it
and it's not costing you anything when you don't need it.
Um, so that's, yeah, that's the, so anything
that has those characteristics
and is available in sufficient quantity would
be, would be helpful.
So long duration, uh, long duration storage,
those, those types of things.
Sure. Okay. So can I just add,
add, add that very, very quickly?
You know, we've gotta be careful
when we talk about security of supply,
that we talk about things in terms of, um, energy,
which is the gigawatt hours Yeah.
But also the capacity, which is the megawatts. Sure.
And we tend to focus on one Yeah.
Um, and not the other at times.
Um, and you know, I was involved
on your behalf doing the investigation
until August Exactly 2021.
Thank you for that. That was very much a capacity issue.
Sure. You know, winter 2024 was an energy issue. Sure.
And I think we've got to make sure that what we are doing,
and this is a big part of all of our work, is ensuring
that both parts Yep.
Of the sector are in balance.
Sure. It's a really good point.
Thank you. Okay. Um, back to the question, which, um,
was the supplementary for the one which
was quite a long time ago now.
Um, so those, those, those, those changes three, two
or three biggest
interventions, the difference they're gonna make.
Yeah. Uh, and then you started, you were just about
to start on the, um, around playing field,
um, leveling the playing field. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. Well, maybe I just talk about, um, I, I mean,
I recognize the review period is some time ago now,
so it's easiest to talk about things
that we are presently doing.
Uh, so we, we are looking, uh, at the moment, the, the,
the forward curve is three years, um, it's market made,
which means that the gen tailors are required to buy
and sell a small amount of electricity, um, to, to establish
what the future price should be.
And we are looking at changing that curve to extend,
we've proposed just extended up to five years.
And also to market, make the, the super peak product IE
to get a, um, more reliable price for, uh, a, a product
that just covers your risk in the morning and evening peaks.
So super technical,
but um, quite foundational to the way the system works. So
Can just explain that super, Super.
Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, so base load is just,
um, energy at 48, um, trading period.
So 24 hours a day.
The, um, peak period is, I understand typically
during the day and it super, the super peak is, uh,
a few hours in the morning Mm.
And a few hours in the evening when prices typically, uh,
are higher because demand is higher.
And, um, so,
So what's the change you're making?
So the, the change we're making is proposing that, uh,
the, the, the super peak product would be effectively
compulsorily traded by the June Taylors.
And that would mean that, um, we would have high reliability
of the price for, uh, super peak support through, through
multiple years in the future, which would give market
participants greater confidence that the price getting for
that product from the Gen Taylors is a fair one.
Okay. So effect it's a hedge. Yeah.
Yeah. So it's a super because a hedge product.
Yeah. Okay. Cool. Okay.
And then, then leveling the playing for, yeah.
So that's pretty, pretty obvious, which basically says same,
same conditions for, um, the Gen Taylors, um, retail arms
as, as for anybody else do.
Um, does that also mean, for example,
the Gentiles all signed up now around Huntley as a, um, uh,
as a, uh, a, a backstop.
Does that mean that everybody pays for that?
How does that get funded? 'cause
that's gotta turn up somewhere,
and I'm presuming it's turning up on the retail
price eventually.
So presumably that should be being paid
for also if you're leveling the playing field
by the independents as well as the,
the Gen Taylor's retail arms,
because it's not, it's not a level playing field.
Yeah. Um, so they, they don't sell, uh,
well, typically what you're buying, uh,
from when you're buying a hedge is you're, is you're buying
a certain amount of energy at a certain time.
Uh, you, you're not buying the output
of a particular wind farm or, or a particular plant.
No. So all of that gets sort of meshed together.
And what you would do if you were looking
to buy a hedge is you would put out a RFB
and say, this is the amount of energy
I'm looking for and this is the price.
And you would get some responses back.
So, so the answer to your question is like implicitly Yeah.
I mean, everything that's increasing,
So everybody's gotta be exposed to it.
'cause they've all hedged their, their ability to be able
to supply the customers correct
Time. That's correct.
I mean, you can, you can avoid
exposure in theory by saying, oh,
well I don't want energy in the winter time,
or I don't want energy at peak time,
or those types of things.
But, but, but in practice it's a pool
Your customers might not be very
Yeah, yeah. Exactly. Exactly.
So you Yeah, that's, that's right.
So it's not, it wouldn't be, you know, you, you can't sort
of say, oh, that's the bit, that's not me,
or that's the bit that's this wind farm,
or that's the bit that's,
And um, so any other major changes that you say that's
A couple, a couple of other things even, um, um,
that have more, going more to the change in, um,
the increasing intermittent generations.
So we've just recently put in place, um, a, uh,
improved process for forecasting wind
and solar, uh, generation.
Um, previously, uh, there was no kind of central process,
so people were required to indicate what they thought
that their production would be in future periods.
Um, and we've changed that so that, uh, there are standards,
uh, and we have an independent body that, that, um,
provides those forecasts.
So, which makes the forecast more accurate.
Um, which of course has a positive impact on, on the system
because we're not either preparing to dispatch energy
that we don't need to or we're not, um, scrambling
to produce more energy in a half hour when something
that was expected does not show up.
And that was something that happened in August, 2021 that,
um, Eric referred to earlier where, um, we saw, you know,
a sudden drop in wind, uh,
and there wasn't enough time for some
of the slow start thermal generation to be able to,
to get up and running in time.
So having better, um, kind of, you know,
forecast accuracy can really help
managing that sort of issue.
So this is forecast minute by minute as opposed
to you're gonna build something next year
or the year after? Yeah,
It's, um, it's every half hour from one week out.
So every half hour they're providing a
week's forecast for wind and solar.
But, and one other really, uh, again, something
that's happening at the moment is we are looking at rule
changes to make battery energy storage systems,
so good scale batteries, easier for them
to operate in the market in very practical ways.
Um, they, we've got two in the market at the moment.
Um, but the way
that the market operates just makes it a little bit more
complicated for them than it should be.
And so we are looking to change
That makes it easier for batteries
to feed in or, or to draw down,
Correct. Yes.
Uh, because they, yes, technically
because they can do both at any time.
Uh, our system wasn't built for assets
that have that flexibility.
So we are, we are changing the system
to enable that kind of thing.
We'd expect that to make it easier to operate better.
Yeah. Okay. Cool. Um, I think I had a question over here.
I start on the level playing field stuff.
Oh yeah. Okay. We'll take a sub there. One, one sub. Oh,
This is a mix of piece.
I'm aware of that, but I do wanna
give everybody a fair go. So
More than an hour.
This is like a massive piece of work that's so important
Okay. To the country. Give
I'll,
I'll give you three if you can do that.
Okay. Um, so I guess in terms of the level playing field,
if we go to the, so the super product,
how many parties are actively trading
the new super super peak products now?
I know it only came in in January, 2025.
We might have that, but how many people were
actively trading in that space?
I, I think we'd have have to come back to you
with an exact number we'd hate to misstate.
Yeah. Um,
but uh, we do have
that we get the data every fortnight, so we can tell you
Of course. Okay. That would
be really good.
I mean, I guess one of the concern I have,
and I'm just keen to test this with you, is
that there's limited salary diversity, um,
that we are relying on, um, 95%.
It's 95% of the flexible generation to voluntarily, um,
come through from the gen tailors that we caught in
that bind of that market, uh,
that market power exercised by the gen tailors.
And so I'd be keen to know the uptake
by independent generators outside of that
and what it is actually enabling in terms
of onboarding new independent generation.
And I guess the question is, have you been asked
by ministers, um, to give advice on moving
beyond the voluntary nature of the super hedge,
either a mandatory product
or even a, um, um, a regulatory backstop, um,
to send a very clear message, um,
that if you don't do this voluntarily, we've got the,
the legislative infrastructure to mandate the availability
of, of these super hedges. Uh,
Well, good news, we've got the power
and we are consulting act on doing that at the moment
To, to mandate. Yes.
Well, that's what you, so the proposal is to market,
make the, to market make we are decisions will be in April.
So, uh, it's that our initial proposal was
that it should be market made.
Yeah. Do you think there's enough
liquidity in there at the moment?
Well, we, we certainly wanna see more liquidity
and that's part of the reason for market making
as well, you guarantee.
But, um, actually response
to the voluntary trading has been pretty good. Okay,
Cool. So, um, but
we can, we can get you enough and
What is the kind of criteria of tests you're gonna,
that you've got set up so you can actually measure whether
or not we are shifting market power, um, whether
or not we, we are seeing that, is
that something QR tracking?
Yeah, I mean there's a whole load of things that,
and we've talked a little bit before about, um,
about our sort of powers of monitoring and,
and looking at what's going on.
Um, we monitor the trading conduct of, um, the generators
and we report weekly on what we're seeing.
So if we see anything, um, unusual, we report on that
and then we look further into that.
Um, so, uh, there's, there is a lot
of scrutiny on the market.
Um, I'm just trying to think
what else you were asking about,
About whether it's, it's shifting that,
Oh, sorry. Whether it was
saying it shift.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that this is the, the nature of it,
a lot of our interventions is to try
and, um, you know, boost competition in the market
to keep supporting the market to continue to deliver.
So, you know, all of these things that we are doing, we are,
um, you know, continually monitoring to see are they
achieving the desired outcomes.
Thank you. And I think it's great work.
So thank you for doing that. Alright.
Um, you'll be mentioned a few times in your introduction,
one of your main job is to keep power
reliable and affordable.
So my, my my, my question is very simple.
Is electricity currently affordable?
Um, there's a few things I think
that it would be helpful to talk about.
And first of all, I think that also worth acknowledging
that affordability, um, generally, you know,
we have a market that delivers, um, pricing
for New Zealanders and the, the pricing, um, how
that stacks up internationally.
Um, New Zealand is not too bad
and we've got some specific, uh, details on that.
But, um,
what goes into your power bill is made up of a whole lot
of different things which change.
And we've talked about the fact that in the last, um, year
and a bit, uh, we have seen prices rise for, particularly
for um, uh, kind of ordinary household bills have risen.
And the, a large part of that increase has been due
to an increase in the component of your bill,
which is made up as a cost of transmission
and distribution network.
So that has been increasing.
So our focus is on looking at all the things that, um,
put pressure on the cost components of the bill
and looking at what we can do
to put pressure on them to reduce.
And there's a whole range of work that goes across that.
Um, we've talked about some of the things
that help support the wholesale market to deliver that kind
of lowest possible cost.
Um, but across the board there's a lot of work we are doing.
Um, yeah.
And we can talk about the international comparisons in terms
of cost, if that's useful.
So from a zero to 10,
how do you rate your own performance in
keeping energy affordable?
Can you repeat your question? Sorry.
On a scale, zero to 10, zero is pretty performed, 10 is,
you know, outstanding jobs.
How do you rate your own performance in keeping
energy affordable?
I think, I mean that's a difficult question, isn't it?
Because there are a lot of components
that go into making energy affordable,
which we don't have control over.
But what I would say is that we, um,
we are working very hard to support consumers both
with what's in front of them right now,
and also to help the market perform better,
to deliver downward pressure on prices in the long term.
And, um, in the last year we've delivered, oh,
in the last two years we've delivered 35 changes
to the rules, um,
which is significantly more than we have in previous years
to enable that change to happen.
So, um, you know, we've done a lot of really important work.
There is a lot more to do, do, uh, and, and,
and we are not alone in doing it either.
We work closely with other parts of government to help.
Can, can I just add to Sarah's point, you know, in,
in rating whether, um, electricity is affordable
in New Zealand, you are making a judgment about a comparator
with something else.
Um, and so, you know, the best comparator is, well
what are other countries doing?
And so when I look at the International Energy agency's data
for 2024 in terms of, you know, their benchmarking
for residential consumers, um, New Zealand is number seven,
um, for commercial
and industrial customers, New Zealand is number six.
Um, what we have to be very, very careful about is,
you know, countries that are cheaper than us, for example,
may have particular government policies that, um,
enable consumers to see much lower, uh, prices.
And I'll give the example of Queensland.
Um, last year the Queensland government gave a, um, subsidy
of, I think it was $1,300 per household
to reduce the cost of their energy.
Um, we don't have similar schemes in New Zealand.
Um, you know, and we're
as an authority are certainly not suggesting that, you know,
that should be something that we should be looking
at here in New Zealand either.
Um, I'm proud of the efficiency
of the market in New Zealand in terms of sending signals.
Um, we acknowledge that we've still got work to go.
Um, you know, at the moment the sector has been quite
supply focused and for very good reasons,
but the opportunities to bring in a lot more flexibility.
So getting consumers to shift their consumption
to aid in bringing down costs
and making it more affordable, that's a key focus
for the authority, um, in coming periods.
So when you mentioned there's still work to do,
in which area you think you will, you'll be able
to improve mm-hmm.
In order to keep electricity affordable?
I think so. Um, I'll start and then feel free to chip in,
but I think for me it comes down to, um, work, uh,
that supports people right now with,
with the current situation they face
and then work that supports the system
to deliver better in the longer term
and put downward pressure on prices over time.
So if I take right here
and now what consumers are facing, um,
we've got some proposals out at the moment that are going
to, um, proposing to make bills simpler,
which helps people understand their bill better
and understand if they can get a better deal.
Um, we've also made, uh, proposed changes to require, um,
power companies to offer you, um,
a better deal if they can see,
'cause they've got information about you.
If they can see that you can get a better deal,
they should be offering that to you.
We also got proposals about, um,
stopping them from being able to bill you for
long historic periods, which,
which can have a real impact day to day.
So those are some of the things that are kind of front
and center when, um, when people are are experiencing kind
of affordability challenges is those sorts of things.
Consumer care obligations also.
So the sector, um, had some voluntary guidelines about
how retailers should treat their, um, their customers.
Um, we didn't think that was, uh, enough
and so we strengthened those
to make them mandatory obligations.
And some of the things those do, um, is, is about
how your power company has to engage
with you if you are having difficulty paying your bill.
Um, there's a whole lot of, of, you know,
what your rights are
and how, how you can expect to be dealt with.
So that's all the sort of things that are kind of front
and center for right now.
Over the longer term we've talked about some
of the initiatives in the wholesale market,
but that's designed to take, um, to help in the long term
with, um, with the market being more efficient
to help get more competition.
Um, and all of those things, more innovation,
they will also lead to lower costs.
Um, Eric has also talked about flexibility,
and that's a really important thing.
We made some changes, um,
which will come into effect from the 1st of July, um,
about requiring power companies to, um,
have what's called a time of use price offering.
So you might find in your household
that you don't necessarily need
to use power at the peak times
and you could shift your power use, um, to,
to an off peak time.
And if that's the case, we think you should, um,
get the benefit of lower pricing for that.
So we've required that, um, uh, larger retailers have
to have those kinds of offerings in the market
from the 1st of July.
Um, so a whole load of things I could probably talk
for ages about all the, all the things that we've done
that add up to, um, improving the situation right now
and improving the situation in the longer term. Just
One more question for me.
Do you think it is fair for the parent electricity user
to cover all the investment costs for the future generation?
Hmm. Is there a specific example
of a investment cost that you're
Thinking? 'cause at the moment,
part of the power bill is
to cover the, the transition
or future investment for the power company, ah,
to build more, uh, capital
or more, uh, you know, solar panel and,
and all this facility generate Yeah.
More power. Yeah,
because what you mentioned is all this future investment
of all this investment in the future will bring the price,
uh, more affordable.
Mm-hmm. So my question is, is it fear
for all the current electronic, uh, electricity user
to cover all the investment costs for the future generation?
I think maybe it might be helpful to start talking about,
um, 'cause I think
what you're talking about potentially is the component
of your electricity bill that covers the costs
of transmission and distribution.
Um, and that that is increasing.
Um, and that's a part of the electricity system
that's regulated by the commerce Commission, not by, its,
we absolutely care very much about how that affects, um,
it flows through to bills,
but we don't, um, regulate that area.
Um, if you're talking about the component of your bill,
which is 38.5%, that is the cost of generating electricity.
Um, that's the part that
I guess is influenced by a lot of things.
So, um, you know, it's influenced by um, you know,
kind of all the cost of, um, of fuel
and things like that that all go into kind
of generating electricity.
Um, so, uh, yeah, I think that does that kind of help?
Yeah. So it's just because we know that a lot
of power bills to cover the, the investment on solar farm,
wind farm, which at the moment people has not benefit
from from it, it'll be the future generation benefit from
all this investment and infrastructure.
So this is why I say it's a fear
for all the current electronic, uh, electricity user
to cover all this building costs
and all this investment for, for future generation.
Yeah. So, so all of the cost of
that investment is not suddenly recovered today.
You know, that's recovered over a period of time.
Um, with respect to generation, for example,
the industry uses a, a term called the levelized cost
of energy, which is basically an indicator of what is the,
the, um, the cost of producing a megawatt hour
of energy from a particular type of, of plant.
And what we are seeing is we are seeing reducing costs, um,
for generation and those reducing costs will flow through to
consumers, but the cost of capital
for tho making those investment
is spread over the lifetime of those assets.
So, um, consumers today will pay some of the cost,
but future consumers are also paying,
but, uh, current consumers are also receiving the benefit of
that because the downward pressure, um, that that brings
to electricity prices.
Would I just to help Carlos, then I'll go,
I think I've got, I've got, you've got both got primaries.
Yes. Yes. So, um, I, I'll primary
and then I'll go 'cause Yeah.
Um, to help Carlos though,
I mean this is why we've got a just in time arrangement in
terms of generators are trying to predict
how much demand there is going to be.
'cause if they go and build a whole lot of, um, a whole lot
of, uh, infrastructure that's not being used,
they're sitting, it's costing them money, isn't it?
And that, that's, so is that also partly where, um,
so something like the LNG plant or, or
likewise Oslo would've been the same because that's invested
and if that's invested or,
or Huntley would be the same, um, if that's invested
as the backup, but if you don't need it,
but somehow you've gotta recover some costs there,
it's there for security of supply that cost does flow
through and the benefit flows through as well.
Yeah. Well, I mean technically a lot depends on
which cost you're recovering
And from whom you'd normally expect the wholesale market
price to reflect the cost of fuel.
Well, some of 'em are insurance
and some of them are not insurance. Guess that's
The point. Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
So, um, what, what we've had
until recently is a huge quantity of domestic gas
and we've had, um, at quite cheap pricings.
Um, and we've had quite a lot
of installed gas generation just running all the
time, able to run often.
Um, in the wintertime especially, um,
that base load role has fallen away as, um,
intermittent generation has become more important.
And so we left with what you are calling the insurance role,
which was previously we we're running a normal time
and we're also available for insurance.
Mm. We're now in a world where it's only running
for insurance and, um, as we've seen the,
that's a tough business case to make work.
Yeah.
Fair. Yeah. Okay. And look, my, so my, my primary, um,
was just in terms of the transmission,
you've mentioned transmission and,
and lines, costs being, you know, haven't gone up.
Mm-hmm. Um, because there's obviously been a lot
of investment in, in that area.
Um, are there particular areas, first part of
that question is are there particular areas in the country
where you see that there are transmission bottlenecks, um,
that are impeding, whether it's generation
or consumption, um, or both.
Um, and secondly, are there areas
where you are thinking about some of the,
I'm particularly thinking of some of the more far-flung
areas where in fact a better generation may be a better
proposition than vulnerable
and expensive lines, uh, which keep on, yeah.
Getting knocked out by storms.
Why don't I start with the second bit?
You might have thoughts on the first bit particularly,
but, um, yeah, I think that, um,
as a general principle you know, if you're trying
to find the lowest cost way to serve, sometimes it will be,
um, from a, a sort of some kind of local, um, solution,
rather than having to build poles
and wires a long way to, um, to, as you say,
a far-flung place and with a smaller base of consumers, um,
you know, to pay for that.
Um, that's one of the things that, uh,
that we are particularly interested in seeing is the system
evolve to, um, to better support, uh, people.
And, and innovation and new technology can help make sure
that we get those, those kind of solutions in place,
that that might be better.
So, for example, um, you know, some places will find
that a community battery, uh,
in a more remote area might be a more cost effective way,
but it also will have resilience benefits too
because, um, you know, it, it may be that
that can better support a community during,
uh, a weather event.
We are seeing the industry, um, you know, looking
for those sorts of opportunities.
Uh, we definitely think that's important.
And last year we published a green paper on what,
what the future might look like in terms
of a more decentralized system generally, um,
because that will have benefits for, um, for cost
and for resilience, um, as well.
So yes, I think probably the short answer
to your question is yes, I think that is something
that's important, and the industry's looking at it,
we are keen to see it happen as well.
Okay. In terms of your first question about areas
where transmission may be a bit more of a bottleneck,
I mean, that is, um, you know, obviously primarily
that is trans power's role.
Yes. Um, uh, I'm not sure that we necessarily
that well-placed, but I don't know
whether you've got anything in particular.
Yeah, no, I, I, I think the important thing here is that,
um, what we have to be cognizant of is the fact
that the industry can evolve in a number
of different directions.
Um, you know, we could see significantly more decentralized
electricity, um, supply,
and that has ramifications for future investment.
Alternatively, we could see significantly more large
central, uh, plant being built,
whether it's an offshore wind or whatever the case may be.
And those have different implications
for the sector going forward.
Um, our challenge at the authority is to make sure
that we've got the rules in place so that
where parties are imposing costs, um, they,
the beneficiaries of those costs are paying for them.
And so that's been a big focus
of the transmission pricing method,
the new transmission pricing methodology that was, um,
implemented in, uh, 2022, which is, you know,
that beneficiaries pays component of the charging,
um, there.
And I think we will see more of that occurring,
um, over time.
Um, to, to Sarah's point, you know, we're already seeing,
um, electricity distribution businesses investing in their
own, um, battery storage on their networks
to defer, um, the need for costly upgrades.
Um, at some point they will need to make those,
but, you know, because of the flexibility of batteries
and, um, well, energy is a good example.
They've invested in, you know, some batteries, uh, to
address specific problems that they've got.
What, when they get to the point that they, uh, need
to upgrade their network, they're gonna move those batteries
to another location, um,
where they've got the same problem developing.
And I think it's that sort of innovation
that we're beginning to see
because technology is changing, um, that gives me confidence
that the industry will actually, um, deal to
that problem in the right, um, the right manner.
Okay. Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on.
I was just gonna say I got, I see. We're, hang on.
I just, I just, so can I just finish my, my last part?
So, so the, the area I am thinking
of the areas like Northland, where you're saying,
and they constant complaint is that, um,
that in fact they're being asked to pay
for faster transmission that's further and further
and further away from the
extension bottom of the south island.
But there she's saying, we actually wanna be able
to generate more power and send it back to Auckland.
So why are we the ones that get
hammered for the price there?
So there are some issues there that they, that,
that there are some bottlenecks
and it's, uh, it's a concern that they've got.
That's the kind of thing that I was, yeah, so
We, we, we do work with the industry on specific issues
as well to understand, you know, if, um,
if the rules are kind of
supporting the right kind of outcomes. Yeah.
Okay. Look, I'm gonna go to As,
and then I've got primary consignment and primary,
So we're on lines. Sorry, might as well just,
Yeah. Okay. Lines. Yep.
I Think we've got time, Mr. Chair.
I was gonna say, I think we've got time for, um, IW
to ask a primary question on lines if she wants to, um,
Expand on. Well, I,
I'm, well, we'll stick with lines line.
No, you can do it. Let's, let's, uh,
let's go, let's go for the up. Away you go.
Okay. It's just, um, that we know that since DP four,
um, the, the, the weighted cost to capital charges
that we've seen significant increases in license charges.
So that came in on 1st of April, 2025,
and we're gonna see that through,
and that's in place to 2030.
Um, I guess my question is, did the government ask you
for any advice, um,
if there were alternative ways to do this?
I mean, you are part of the family of energy regulators.
I know it's a ComCom decision,
but you do have the Energy Regulators Council, um,
that come together in terms of how we may have, if,
did the government ask for any advice on whether there were
ways that we could stop this increase
to people's power bills?
Um, I, I would have to, to check to Okay.
To give you an that would accurate answer.
I mean, the reason I say that is it's something
that we all talk about a lot, obviously.
Yeah. Um, yeah, you've referred
to the Council of Energy Regulators.
We meet regularly. We talk about, um,
about the system in general and things like the cost of, um,
or the, the increases, um, that started to flow through,
as you say in April, 2025, uh,
are something we've discussed extensively,
um, uh, as a group.
And so I, I just, I wouldn't want to, um,
give an incomplete answer. Okay.
That would be great if you could come back
and also whether or not ministers asked MP
and yourselves, which would be your role to review the
distribution pricing principles.
Mm-hmm. Um, and but also transmission in there as well,
and also what we've been talking about,
how they're allocated regionally
and how that flows through to the local charges.
The other thing is what advice you are getting together
ahead of the post 2030 mm.
Um, for, for DPP five, um,
what we are looking at in terms
of incorporating these innovative models
that you're talking about, do we need
to fundamentally change
what we're putting into the regulated asset base, um,
and think about things differently than we have in terms
of the holes and wires
that we've thought thought about traditionally?
And what do we need to change there
to really unleash the innovation that
that could exist? Yeah.
Yeah. Did you wanna talk about that?
I, I, I was just going to make the observation, you know,
those are things that, you know, we do think about.
Yeah. Because, you know, the last thing that we want
to see is to see, you know, shocks
because you move from one weighted
weighted average cost of capital to another,
which is significantly higher, you know, and
because it's a five year period, it's a,
it's quite a blunt talk and Yeah.
You know, and Yeah. As, as regulated, yeah,
we are always looking at these things.
What can we do to, to better improve the outcomes that are,
uh, are being achieved in the sector?
Will you be giving advice of whether
or not there needs to be capital in injections,
either into transmission
or distribution, rather than
charging it like we are at the moment as we look
to the future and trying to build ahead rather than the kind
of just in time build that we are seeing both
with transmission and distribution?
And we certainly work very closely
with the Commerce Commission, I think, um, it's difficult
to answer whether we will be giving advice on something,
but it's something that we are, you know, actively,
you know, alert to.
What about a longer regulated pathway?
Do we need to, to start thinking about that in terms of,
to Carlos's point, how we spread those costs?
Look, we, we, we, we absolutely have to consider,
you know, all options.
Um, and where we have, you know,
where we form views on what might be appropriate to do,
we will bring those to the appropriate parties,
whether it's MB to ministers, um, to select committee,
so we can have those debates.
You know, it's not about us as a regulator being, um,
the font of all wisdom.
Um, we need to work with parties,
and that's something that Sarah
and her team have been actively involved in doing is
building those relationships.
Um, and it's something that I'm encouraging the team to do.
And certainly at a broadly level, we will also be doing it
with our, you know, um, regulatory, um, partners
so that we know where
each organization has pressure points
and where there is a work stream that we can work on,
um, jointly to come up with a better outcome.
We will and progress those things quickly.
And we are, and there are things
that will come out soon in terms of
where we are working together
and communicating together to the sector, um,
which is a much more effective way
of getting outcomes than each doing our own bit.
Always true. Sign
Up primary.
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Um, questions for Sarah. Mm-hmm.
Sarah, in 20 October, 2024, you wrote, we are enabling,
and this is in your role as chief executive,
we are enabling a future electricity system
where energy flows from renewable power sources to homes
and businesses and from homes
and businesses with solar panels
and batteries back into the network.
And that rewards businesses
and consumers from for, for participating.
A month later in November, 2024,
solar Zero entered liquidation, uh, due
to unsustainable financial losses in high debt,
despite backing from Black Rock
and the New Zealand Green Investment Fund,
and the New Zealand taxpayers took a hit of $133 million
to the, that's what the government lost on
behalf of taxpayers.
Because of that MAL investment, um,
600 creditors rode $40 million and 15
and a half thousand customers, many of whom have written
to me complaining bitterly about the experience, um,
now face not just uncertainty
regarding their 20 year contracts,
but uncertainty with respect to the things
that were installed on their properties
and on their roofs, whether they're warranted,
who's gonna service them.
So, do you still think
that the electricity authority should be focused on, on,
uh, basically encouraging more homes
and businesses to have solar panels on their roof
and batteries in their basement,
or where they used to have a hot water cupboard?
Um, or do you think actually you should be focused on the
bigger picture and making sure that, you know,
the regulated entities, uh, do their job better?
Mm-hmm.
Let me first start by saying, um, you know,
I'm incredibly, um, uh, you know,
concerned about the situation for people who were customers
and who've ended up, um, in a, you know, um,
in a difficult position.
Mm. Um, and, and the Commerce Commission,
I know has done some work to make sure that, you know,
people are, um, uh, their rights are being looked after.
Um, in terms of the broader question though, about,
you know, should we be encouraging, uh, any particular form
of, um, of investment?
I've talked already about the fact that we see the system
as, as becoming potentially increasingly decentralized,
and that can have real benefits.
Um, it can have benefits if you are in the fortunate
position to be able to afford solar, um,
and a battery that can help you,
but it can also help lower the cost of the whole system,
which can benefit everybody.
Um, but our job,
and we've talked about it earlier, is not
to pick any one thing and say that's the right solution.
Our job as a regulator of a market is to encourage, um,
and facilitate all the options that people, people want
to make choices for themselves.
So for some people, that would be a great choice.
Um, but absolutely our job is to make sure
that the big players are doing all
the things they're supposed to do.
And that's why our focus runs the full spectrum of, um,
what are we doing to support, um, you know, kind
of investment, uh, the options for people rebates, uh,
for people who are injecting into the,
into the grid at peak times, making sure
that they're fairly rewarded for that.
Uh, also supporting flexibility, so time of use and,
and people being able to shift their load to have a,
you know, a, a benefit for everybody.
Um, but also the big end of town.
So making sure that the wholesale market is working well,
that there are, um, rules about how, uh,
those players conduct themselves, um,
how they treat other people, uh, and that we are monitoring
and enforcing those rules.
So I think the answer to your question is,
we've gotta do all of it, and we've gotta do all of it.
Well, um, because our job isn't to choose four people, uh,
it's to make sure that they can have the choices, um,
and that all those choices are available to them.
Okay. Well, Sarah, in the article,
which is published on your LinkedIn, your profile mm-hmm.
Um, you don't say you're agnostic
or your job is just to, um, be the regulator.
You say the electricity authority is actively
working to support this.
And, uh, that was a month
before Solar Zero collapse, leaving 15
and a half thousand consumers in deep kaka,
uh, and the taxpayer $133 million in the red, which,
you know, I mean, you could say as a result
of decisions made by previous government, which, um,
established a green investment fund, uh,
that contributed to that mal investment.
So did you know about the issues with Solar Zero
and their financial situation?
Did you have any, anything of it in your role
of Chief executive?
I don't, I don't, I don't think, um, that's not something
that we were engaged with, but
what I would say about your comment about support, I think
what I'm, what I'm saying in that article,
and what I would continue to say is we support people
to have choices that work for them.
Mm-hmm. Solar Zero was one provider. Mm-hmm.
Um, there are other, there are lots of other providers, um,
and lots of other options for people.
And again, that's what we want to ensure is available
to people that they've got choices. Do
You think that household rooftop solar,
do you think there are structural
or endemic issues with that?
Um, with that form of energy, uh,
and the contention that customers are better off
with batteries and solar panels on their roof?
I mean, these things apparently only last 15 years
before they start to fall to bits,
they're all made in China using coal, uh, as you know,
to turn carbon from coal into solar panels.
So, do you really, do you think there's some structural
or endemic problems with this industry
and sector, uh, that actually aren't helpful in terms
of New Zealand's long term security supply?
You, you go if you want to. I'm happy to.
Well, actually, I think it's important that Sarah access,
because this is her LinkedIn where she's published this,
where she says EA is actively working.
Simon, I think you made think you made the point.
So can, can I just make a, um, Mr.
Chair just a very quick comment.
You know, we are indifferent, um, what
We clearly Yeah, 15 and a half thousand. Simon.
Simon, let's get the, let's get the answer.
Let's The Answer.
We are indifferent to, you know, fuel choice by parties
who wish to, to make investment.
Many consumers in New Zealand,
and I think at the moment it's about 86,000, um,
homes in New Zealand have got solar installed.
Um, those consumers are obviously, you know,
seeing significant benefits.
Um, we've got a number of stakeholders who, you know,
are criticizing the authority
for not moving fast enough on certain aspects of this.
Um, what we are doing is ensuring that, you know, much
as we talked about a, a level playing field between,
you know, the Gen Taylors
and, um, others, we're also wanting
to make sure it's a level playing field for those who wish
to invest in solar and those who, you know, um,
and have the ability to do that.
Um, and so the barriers to
that are removed in, in this sector.
And we've been active in that, you know,
at the moment we are working through, um, placing
or creating the ability for parties with solar to inject up
to 45, um, kilowatts into the system.
Mm-hmm. Um, we are making it a requirement,
and any consumer can inject up to 10, um,
kilowatts into the distribution business from their,
their home solar system.
And so, you know, that's removing barriers.
Um, Sarah, um,
and none of the authority members, as far as I'm aware,
were on the board of Solar Zero.
So we didn't have access to any of
that information in the decisions that were taken. So,
Is, is there any, I mean, has the electricity authority
looked into whether the regulatory environment that allowed
for all of those customers essentially to be sold a lemon
for the New Zealand government to be sold a lemon?
And all of these people who are on the hook now
and have this, this, this essentially
a zombie asset on their roofs,
has the electricity authority locked onto whether the
regulatory environment for these type
of installations is suitable? Uh,
That's not within our remit.
So our remits regulating the electricity market,
but we have spoken to the commerce commission, some of that,
what you're talking about falls within their remit.
Um, and we work very closely with them.
I would like to reiterate that we absolutely, um,
have concerns about people being left in a position that's,
um, you know, that you've described.
Um, but again, it is about all forms
of generation have benefits,
and our role is to make sure
that the market can support the choices that people, uh,
have and that we can continue to, um, you know,
get the benefit of new technology and get better outcomes.
Okay. Do you think the current settings last one?
Yeah, sure. You think the current markets, so you, you,
you stated you regulate the electricity market.
Yeah. Do you think that the current settings actually reveal
to the consumer the true whole of life costs, risks
and benefits for rooftop solar
and battery installation? So, so the
Wholesale price is based on the cost of energy
and the demand and supply balance at that moment.
It's not, it doesn't,
it's not doing anything other than trying
to allocate the least cost set of generation
to meet demand at that time. So
I'm not entirely sure that responded to my question.
Do you think the market settings reveal to those
who are looking to invest in these rooftop solar
and batteries, the whole of life cost to them
of owning these assets, having them on their roofs,
whether they're actually gonna get long-term benefit, um,
and, you know, the risks, you know,
of having these things on their roofs, having to deal
with the waste at the end of the solar panels, that,
that sounds very short service
Life. Yeah. That sounds to
me like a
broader regulatory question Yeah.
About things like the commerce commission fair trading
regimes, all those sorts of things.
So I think that's fair. Yeah. Okay.
Cool. Thank You. Thank you.
Um, wanting to talk about the structural roles, um,
one of the things I'm interested
to know is whether the minister ministers
or mb um, have asked, um, the electricity authority
to, to take on any powers to look at taking any,
on any powers in terms of splitting the Gen Taylors,
the structural structural separation, um,
virtual ring FE fencing, all of these kinds of things.
Is this something that, um, ministers
or MB have asked you to look at?
Well, I think, um, when we put out our
task force proposals around, um, the level playing field,
we also talked about what some of those wider, um,
or that kind of continuum of options might look like.
So we have kind of written extensively about all of that,
um, over, over quite a period of time.
Just interested whether the minister of MB have,
have explicitly asked you
to look at taking on those numbers?
Uh, certainly not in my,
but that's a relatively brief tenure.
We can certainly check. Yeah.
I, I just say we, um, have held the view,
and this is also part of the level playing field story
that we, that we don't have the ability
to impose a structural separation that, that
that power is beyond us. It's not, so,
Absolutely. And my question was
whether you'd be asked
to look at taking on those powers.
Absolutely. Except you don't have it now.
So the question was whether
or not the minister MB had asked you
to look at taking on those powers?
Well, certainly I to say not in the last 10 months,
but I can we, can we
Just a up on that? So
here's the board, um, had an opinion on whether
or not this is a political slash policy question
or a regulated decision.
Has the board received information on that?
No. And, and we don't have an opinion on the
Matter on whether or not it would be a political decision
or a regulated decision. Well, well
On the question of, you know, separation of Gen Taylors
or anything like that, right.
Would you consider that it should be a decision
that's made at a political slash policy level,
or it would be a decision for you as a regulator?
So to make such a decision
as the regulator under our current rules would be,
well, it would be difficult.
So then have to be a political slash policy decision
to give you the powers in order to do it, is
What you're saying? Well, the, the process
would require us to demonstrate,
calculate the cost and benefits,
and consider all the alternatives
and demonstrate that the proposal that we came up
with was superior to all of them.
So it, um, it would be, it's hard to imagine
that you could, uh,
Do through A normal, through a normal,
through a normal regulatory process. Yeah. Great.
In terms of, um, the work that you're doing,
and I think the, the work that you have done in terms
of the, the energy ta task force
and the competition task force, great to see you working
with the ComCom and the other regulators.
I think we need more of that.
What could you do to go faster and further
Across the board? Or are
you thinking specific specifically about that?
Um, I'm thinking particularly in terms
of the affordability, um, and the cost of electricity.
If you, if you were given a blank piece of paper,
what could you do do to go faster and further?
Mm-hmm. That's a good question.
Um, I think the first thing I'm, I will say, which is not,
maybe not quite answering your question,
but we have absolutely gone a lot faster
and a lot further in the last kind of 18 months, two years,
um, than we had previously.
And part of that is about, um, part of
that is about thinking about, um, how we engage with, um,
industry and consumers so that we can try
and avoid extended linear processes to change the rules,
but we can, we can operate in a more streamlined way.
Um, part of that is about, um, you know, we have, uh,
increased our capability, um, to be able
to deliver more and faster as well.
So all of those things make a difference.
Um, I think inherent in your question is probably, um,
the process by which we make the rules,
and that does, we do have the ability to make
rule changes urgently under urgency.
Um, but typically that's in limited circumstances.
But typically good rulemaking, um,
involves seeking the perspectives of others as well, um, so
that we make sure that it makes sense and it works
and it delivers the outcome outcomes we want.
And when you regulate a particularly technical sector,
that's very important because if we make rules
that can't be implemented
or don't work on a technical level, um,
they won't achieve outcomes.
So, um, those are some immediate thoughts, but
Can, can I just add, Gary wants
To jump at the chart. Yeah.
Look, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll put my acting chairman,
you know, hat on here for a moment.
You know, I think the critical thing
that the authority has done over probably the last two years
has become a lot more strategically focused.
Okay. And so we are now looking much more at, you know,
what are those big ticket items, the things
that will really turn the dial.
And then as we uncover those, we are then looking at
what is our program work, how do we better prioritize that
so that we are doing the important things, the things
that are going to make the biggest difference for consumers,
um, in New Zealand, both in the short term
but also in the long run.
You know, our statutory objective requires us to, you know,
be focused on that long run.
You know, if we're not putting in place some
of those foundational elements, then that
potentially creates barriers to doing things, um,
in a timely manner further down.
So, you know, we we're continually trying to balance that.
If I can make a flippant remark, you know, um,
how much budget are you prepared to give us to do this?
You know, it's,
and we spend a very small
sum of money to actually operate the authority.
You know, forget about what we are spending
for supporting the system operator
and all of the other service providers to the market.
You know, that's a, by far the biggest chunk of the, uh,
income that the authority gets.
What we actually have left over to do that relative
to the size
and value of the electricity sector is quite small.
Um, and given that we are looking to
electrify the New Zealand economy at pace, you know,
the opportunity is there for us
to do more if we have got more money.
At the moment, we're not proposing to do that
because we have to get through the work, look at
what are the priorities, um, what are the resources
that we need to do.
And part of that is, um, contingent on the work
that we are getting, uh,
an independent external reviewer to do for us.
You know, what do we need to do to ensure
that we are a future fit regulator?
You know, the New Zealand market, I'm quite proud is, is one
of the best in the world.
And you know, I've worked around the world, so I can say
that with some confidence.
What I want to see to see as well is to ensure that
as a regulator we are regarded as one
of the top forming regulators around the world as well.
That's the ambition that I've got for our organization.
And I would like to thank you Eric
and the board, including board members
who have recently departed for the work that you've done
of really taking forward a lot of
that innovation in sir, you and your team too.
I've got a question, um, which is just about the, the,
the makeup of, oh, do you have one?
Sorry. Just, okay, I'll finish this question again.
The makeup of the kind of generation that's being created.
So on your, on your website, you've got, um,
the projects and pipeline, et cetera.
Mm-hmm. Intermittent slash renewable
being pretty much the same thing.
Um, uh, 80, 82 0.9% question really is the balance
of the, the generation going forward,
what works, what doesn't work.
And now my understanding is the cheapest form
of generation is to, to create new is now solar and wind.
I can't remember which order. Um,
but every one of those to some degree requires
affirming to back it up.
And so you actually really need to load that cost in
and say, well, that's part of the cost of building
with solar and, and um, uh, and,
and wind in the first place.
So how does, how do those numbers stack up?
'cause we're in this transition of,
we've been talking about, there's actually quite a
fundamental change between the base load,
which we've been used to, and it's still,
it is still mostly, um, hydro still mostly water.
Mm-hmm. It's mostly hydro. Mm-hmm.
But that change is quite a significant change
and the certainty that we've actually got that model right?
Yeah. Or the, the plan is to get that model right.
That that is actually gonna be the most
cost effective way of doing it.
Bearing in mind you need both intermittent if you're gonna
do that intermittent and, and base load
and affirming to go sit underneath it Yeah.
What those numbers look like. And has anybody done
that sort of work and oh
Gosh, that, um, there's quite a bit in that question,
but I might just start by saying, um, just a kind
of a high level point is that you are right.
The cha the the mix of generation is changing.
Um, it,
it will also cha will also look quite different at different
times of the year and in different years when we've got,
you know, different, um, things impacting
That, that's what's switched on
and that's what's generating Yes.
Yes. But it's not what's actually,
once you built it, you built it. Yeah,
That's right. But it's also what's
available in terms of, you know,
if we've had a year, like we, um,
currently experiencing very high had high hydro inflow,
so the lakes will be full.
So you will see a greater proportion
of our generation coming from hydro.
Um, it's also, um, really important
to recognize geothermal in the mix.
'cause that's a, a really valuable, very nice.
It's got lots of benefit for the system.
Um, and it's a nice solid base load.
Um, but I think your question is, um, has, did you say,
has anyone done the numbers on Yes.
Has someone done the numbers on different
mixes, I guess of Yeah.
Types of generation going forward
and actually what makes the most economic sense.
Mm-hmm. Um, you know, if you say, well we,
we've got this mix here,
or this mix here, which is giving you the best mm-hmm.
Um, the best bang for buck.
Yeah. And of course it is a market, so, you know,
people make their own choices
about what they wanna invest in.
And then, you know, we don't, we don't sort of say to them,
well, you must only do this.
And there are lots of things that go into
that obviously too, because it might be easy
to consent some forms of generation than it is others.
Yes. Um, but do you have any kind of specific
Thoughts? I, I, I suppose it's
because we're getting, we,
we get people who keep on talking about one particular sort.
Yeah. Other people talk about different sort of Yeah.
Generation, but as you say,
the market might make a decision,
but which one actually makes the most sense. Yeah. Yeah.
So, so, um, yeah, the, the, we don't take a view on that.
What we do do is two things that are essentially relevant.
One is we just calculate the cost of the unit of energy
well, of, you know, of different source.
Um, and that shows you at the moment that solar will be,
you know, the cheapest per unit of energy,
including, including firming.
Sorry, that's the second part of my question. Yeah.
So that we can also calculate the, that kind
of confirming the firm cost mm-hmm.
Of, um, and which is what we do.
We calculate affirmed cost of energy,
which we would then use as a sort of cost base.
The, the, the tricky thing obviously is that, um,
so the people who, who are saying, we should do more
of this, so we should do more of that, they're totally open
to them to raise the money and put that.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. No,
they're usually asking somebody else to do it.
Some, yeah. And that's politicians.
So that's one of the things that we
don't have in our system.
Right. So our system isn entirely.
If you can make, if you can, if you think
that you can generate some energy, um,
and make a profit, then good, good luck to you.
So we, we, we don't stand here and as a regulator
and say, you are particularly blessed
or we really want this, or we really want that.
The system provides a price signal including out
over some years Yep.
By location and people decide.
So what we are seeing at the moment is, uh, geothermal, um,
a lot of solar, some wind projects, um, and some bigger
and bigger batteries, uh, being, um, built.
What we see in the slightly longer term, if you look at, um,
gene Taylor's plans
and they're all building, um, very extensive.
They've all got very extensive built programs, is a, it's,
it's a similar sort of mix.
And then they are also repowering existing hydro schemes,
which is a sort of free way to, cheap way to get more.
Um, and then they'll also, I'm sure be looking at, um,
bigger, um, hydro development as you know,
again, in the distance that
Can, can I add to the, the comments that have been made?
And I'll get technical for a moment.
You know, the, the, the critical issue when we look at this
firming question from my perspective
is if we look at what's known as a low duration curve,
which is, you know, what consumption is in every half hour
period in New Zealand, um, the top 1%.
So of those periods, you know, it's 176, half hours
in a year adds about 10% to the peak capacity.
So if we can shift that, there's a huge saving,
it's nearly 700 megawatts of capacity that is free.
Okay. And what we, you know,
and we've caught already today about affirming, uh, sorry,
the, uh, flexibility that we, we are looking to encourage,
you know, that's a great example.
E has recently come out with their report on the value,
you know, demand, demand side participation, you know,
and signaled about $3 billion in benefits.
Um, it's quite significant
and it is something that we can focus on.
And so even though, you know, um, solar
and wind is the lowest cost, if we can do that with
the addition of bringing, you know, flexibility Yeah.
And to managing that load, we can bring down,
um, you know, the costs.
It's not going to be easy,
but the technology is there, you know, at the moment
internationally, people would say we can control probably 30
to 40% of the load at any particular time on a power system.
And so, you know, we are only talking about, you know, 1%
of the peak periods to get 10%.
So that should be ENT and durable.
And that's something that is a, you know,
as a regulator we can help.
Um, so, so it's country achieve it's a market
and people making their decisions about
what they're gonna invest in,
but there's a bit of a bit of guidance and massaging.
Well, that's about encouraging flexibility, which is kind
of about getting more out of the things you've already got.
Yeah. It, it's, it's, you know,
I've got Tony and then we,
But um, so at the moment, um, we, we we're,
we're quite early in the, um, in the work
to develop the rules that we unable
to demand participation in the market.
So that's, so that's is is why, this is why, um,
Eric is talking about it.
'cause we expect this to become more important in the market
sense as technology has made household
flexibility more practical.
Um, as this, uh,
technology has made demand response from other forms
of load more practical, um, we, we've yet, you know,
we've gotta evolve our market systems
to, to respond to that.
Just finally, who's we? And then I'll go to Megan.
Uh, well, the electricity authority,
when I say we, I mean the electricity authority.
Well, I thought, I wondered if you meant all the,
the various, the collection.
Well, I'll put it on you guys.
Well, I thought, I thought it was more broad.
I wondered if it more broad than Yeah, that's why. So
We are in the, uh, fortunate position
of having both the ability to write
and, um, enforce the rules.
And so we will do our part of that.
Certainly other people will play
Roles. I'd be keen to
enforce more of
that time would be against us at the moment. But Megan,
So just in terms of our ability to do
what you're talking about, the last question,
have this flexibility to have a more
distributed, uh, power system.
It's fair to say that we do need a program
of regulatory reform,
which you guys have really been out in front of in terms of,
I'm thinking of things like the multi trader relationship
trial that you did, the ability for us
to do these kind of things.
What are some of the other things that we have
to do in terms of our regulatory innovation
to make sure we are keeping up
with the technology innovation?
Probably maybe the sort of eco product standards.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's
Special time.
Yeah. It's getting the standards right. You know. Yeah.
We've, you know, at our last board meeting, you know, we've
gone and, you know, we're doing work on, um,
voltage requirements
and you know, again, very technical voltage, um, you know,
frequency and those sorts of things.
But you know, we know that technology,
you know, is improving.
So, um, you know, batteries, um,
inverter standards, for example, have got huge change
or can make huge differences.
You know, as a regulator we can mandate certain things,
but we've gotta have the right standards in place as well.
So everything is going to work
because the last thing that we want to have happen
is we have unintended consequences
that impose costs somewhere else
or creates problems for, um, the system operator in terms
of their role in ensuring that, you know, we do have a, um,
secure and reliable power.
Sure. And, and you know, we do work very closely, uh,
with the system of array.
We are looking at some of its technical things there
input, we need to wrap it there. There's significant,
We need to wrap it. No,
we need to wrap it there because we've got,
we've got eight minutes.
But to, to do the, the rest of the stuff that we need to do
before we get the next lot of deal with another
Can, can, can, can I just
before we do wrap, can I make the offer, um,
and it can be a standing offer that if, you know,
this committee would like the authority
to provide some assistance to help with your understanding
of the electricity system, the electricity market, um,
would welcome the opportunity to invite you in, um,
to have those conversations. Thanks.
Thanks Eric. We did that about two years ago.
Things are evolving. It's good to get an update.
I think we might well want to
take you up on that one. That would be great.
Yeah. Thank you Eric, Sarah Hayden.
Thank you very much. Really appreciate it. Yes.
Uh, and there will probably be some follow up questions.
Uh, we'll need to turn those around quite quickly.
But we need to get the, our report in
by the 31st of March, back to the house.
No problem. Thank you very much. Really appreciate.